docs: Update Admin Partitions with more explicit commands by using shell variables (#12966)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/enterprise/admin-partitions.mdx

- Consul 1.11.1 and newer

> ### General Networking Requirements

Reviewer: I image that the next question from users is going to be 'well, how do I do that?' This requirement is fulfilled by configuring firewalls in whatever infrastructure environment, correct? Not Consul-specific settings? Should we add something like "Refer to the documentation for your infrastructure environment for instructions on how to configure routes between nodes." Or am I misunderstanding?

Author: I expanded, we actually do want to make sure clients also can communicate to servers via RPC, Gossip and HTPS as well for general networking requirements.

- Consul 1.11.1 and newer

### General Networking Requirements

> - All Consul clients must be able to communicate with the Consul servers in the `default` partition, and all servers must be able to communicate with the clients. On Kubernetes, this is accomplished on Consul on Kubernetes by deploying a dedicated `partition` Kubernetes `LoadBalancer` service that allows clients to talk to servers on the `default` partition created on the Consul servers. For other runtimes, please refer to the documentation for your infrastructure environment for instructions on how to allow communication between clients within a parittion and Consul Servers across the following ports:
>   - RPC on port 8300 
>   - Gossip on port 8301
>   - HTTPS API requests on port 443 API requests  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All Consul clients must be able to communicate with the Consul servers in the `default` partition. All servers must also be able to communicate with the clients.

For Consul on Kubernetes, deploy a dedicated `partition` Kubernetes `LoadBalancer` service (refer to [Kubernetes Requirements](#kubernetes-requirements) for additional information). 

For other runtimes, refer to the documentation for your infrastructure environment for instructions on how to allow communication on the following ports:
- 8300 (RPC)  
- 8301 (gossip)
- 443 (HTTPS API requests)  
```
I think we can point readers to the dedicated section.

- Consul 1.11.1 and newer

### General Networking Requirements

> All Consul clients must be able to communicate with the Consul servers in the `default` partition. All servers must also be able to communicate with the clients.

Reviewer 2: It might be the phrasing that is throwing me off, but my initial thought from reading this sentence is that it is not technically correct. It is true that client and server agents need to be able to communicate with each other, but the clients will communicate with the servers over the gossip pool for its assigned partition, not the `default` partition.

- A Consul Enterprise license must be installed on each Kubernetes cluster.
- The helm chart for consul-k8s v0.39.0 or greater.
- Consul 1.11.1-ent or greater.

> - All Consul clients must be able to communicate with the Consul servers in the `default` partition, and all servers must be able to communicate with the clients. 
>   - A designated Kubernetes `LoadBalancer` service is exposed on the Consul server cluster to allow communication for RPC (port 8300), Gossip (port 8301), and HTTPS (port 443) API requests to the both the Consul servers and the `default` partition. 
>   - Mesh Gateways are deployed as a Kubernetes `LoadBalancer` service (on port 443) across all Kubernetes clusters to allow for cross partition networking as described in [Cross-Partition Networking](#cross-partition-networking). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A designated Kubernetes `LoadBalancer` service must be exposed on the Consul server cluster. This enable the following communication channels to the Consul servers and the `default` partition:
  - RPC on port 8300 
  - Gossip on port 8301
  - HTTPS API requests on port 443 API requests 
- Mesh gateways must be deployed as a Kubernetes `LoadBalancer` service on port 443 across all Kubernetes clusters.
- Cross-partition networking must be implemented as described in [Cross-Partition Networking](#cross-partition-networking). 
```
Trying to make this more bullet-y list-y so it's easier to consume while still providing all of the information.  
  
This seems like a general requirement: 

- All Consul clients must be able to communicate with the Consul servers in the `default` partition, and all servers must be able to communicate with the clients. 

Maybe move it up the top? Or create a Networking sub requirement and put it there?

Author: We can move up higher as a general networking requirement under its own section.

- A Consul Enterprise license must be installed on each Kubernetes cluster.
- The helm chart for consul-k8s v0.39.0 or greater.
- Consul 1.11.1-ent or greater.

> - A designated Kubernetes `LoadBalancer` service must be exposed on the Consul server cluster. This enable the following communication channels to the Consul servers and the `default` partition:

Reviewer 2: I think "…and the `default` partition" should be removed since the client's config determines the partition it is trying to join.

The following procedure will result in an admin partition in each Kubernetes cluster. The Consul clients running in the cluster with servers will be in the `default` partition. Another partition called `clients` will also be created.

> #### Prepartion for install across multiple Kubernetes clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Prepare to install Consul across multiple Kubernetes clusters
```

Verify that your Consul deployment meets the [Kubernetes Requirements](#kubernetes-requirements) before proceeding.

1. Verify that your VPC is configured to enable connectivity between the pods running Consul clients and servers. Refer to your virtual cloud provider's documentation for instructions on configuring network connectivity.
1. Set environment variables to use with shell commands. 

  ```shell-session
  $ export HELM_RELEASE_SERVER=server
  $ export HELM_RELEASE_CLIENT=client
  $ export SERVER_CONTEXT=<context for server, run `kubectl config current-context` for cluster provisioned for servers>
  $ export CLIENT_CONTEXT=<context for workload partition, run `kubectl config current-context` for cluster provisioned for workload partition>
  ```
1. Set your context to the server cluster. 

  ```shell-session
  $ kubectl config use-context ${SERVER_CONTEXT}
  ```
  
1. Create the license secret in server cluster.

  ```shell-session

>   $ kubectl create secret -n consul generic license --from-file=key=./path/to/license.hclic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ kubectl create secret --namespace consul generic license --from-file=key=./path/to/license.hclic
```
I think we want to always use the expanded form of the flags. Also, is `consul generic license` an actual value or is it placeholder text? We've been trying to use brackets (square or angle) for placeholder text

>   $ kubectl create secret -n generic license --from-file=key=[license file path i.e. ./license.hclic]

Reviewer 3: Is that "-n"supposed to be there? Or is it supposed to have a namespace value passed to it?

Author: Thanks I caught that as well!

  ```
  
1. Set your context to the workload client cluster. 

  ```shell-session
  $ kubectl config use-context ${CLIENT_CONTEXT}
  ```

1. Create the license secret in the workload client cluster. This step must be repeated for every additional workload client cluster. 

  ```shell-session
  $ kubectl create ns consul 

>   $ kubectl create secret -n consul generic license --from-file=key=./path/to/license.hclic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ kubectl create secret --namespace consul generic license --from-file=key=./path/to/license.hclic
```

>   $ kubectl create secret -n generic license --from-file=key=[license file path i.e. ./license.hclic]

Reviewer 3: Same with "-n" from here

Author: Thanks!

The following procedure will result in an admin partition in each Kubernetes cluster. The Consul clients running in the cluster with servers will be in the `default` partition. Another partition called `clients` will also be created.

#### Prepare to install Consul across multiple Kubernetes clusters

Verify that your Consul deployment meets the [Kubernetes Requirements](#kubernetes-requirements) before proceeding.

1. Verify that your VPC is configured to enable connectivity between the pods running Consul clients and servers. Refer to your virtual cloud provider's documentation for instructions on configuring network connectivity.
1. Set environment variables to use with shell commands. 

  ```shell-session
  $ export HELM_RELEASE_SERVER=server
  $ export HELM_RELEASE_CLIENT=client
  $ export SERVER_CONTEXT=<context for server, run `kubectl config current-context` for cluster provisioned for servers>
  $ export CLIENT_CONTEXT=<context for workload partition, run `kubectl config current-context` for cluster provisioned for workload partition>
  ```
1. Set your context to the server cluster. 

  ```shell-session
  $ kubectl config use-context ${SERVER_CONTEXT}

>   ```

Reviewer 2: You might be able to simplify this a bit by removing the `use-context` commands and instead passing the `--context` flag to each of the `kubectl create` commands. E.g., `kubectl create secret --context $CLIENT_CONTEXT …`

1. Install the Consul server(s) using the values file created in the previous step:

  ```shell-session

>   $ helm install ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER} hashicorp/consul --version "0.43.0" --create-namespace -n consul --values server.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ helm install ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER} hashicorp/consul --version "0.43.0" --create-namespace --namespace consul --values server.yaml
```

  ```

1. After the server starts, get the external IP address for partition service so that it can be added to the client configuration. The IP address is used to bootstrap connectivity between servers and clients. <a name="get-external-ip-address"/>

  ```shell-session

>   $ kubectl get services --selector="app=consul,component=server" -n consul --output jsonpath="{range .items[*]}{@.status.loadBalancer.ingress[*].ip}{end}"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ kubectl get services --selector="app=consul,component=server" --namespace consul --output jsonpath="{range .items[*]}{@.status.loadBalancer.ingress[*].ip}{end}"
```

  34.135.103.67
  ```

1. Get the Kubernetes authentication method URL for the workload cluster:

  ```shell-session
  $ kubectl config view --output "jsonpath={.clusters[?(@.name=='${CLIENT_CONTEXT}')].cluster.server}"
  ```

  Use the IP address printed to the console to configure the `k8sAuthMethodHost` parameter in the workload configuration file for your client nodes.

1. Copy the server certificate to the workload cluster.

  ```shell-session

>   $ kubectl get secret ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER}-consul-ca-cert --context ${SERVER_CONTEXT} -n consul --output yaml | kubectl apply -n consul --context ${CLIENT_CONTEXT} --filename -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ kubectl get secret ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER}-consul-ca-cert --context ${SERVER_CONTEXT} -n consul --output yaml | kubectl apply --namespace consul --context ${CLIENT_CONTEXT} --filename -
```

  ```

1. Copy the server key to the workload cluster.

  ```shell-session

>   $ kubectl get secret ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER}-consul-ca-key --context ${SERVER_CONTEXT} -n consul --output yaml | kubectl apply -n consul --context ${CLIENT_CONTEXT} --filename -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ kubectl get secret ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER}-consul-ca-key --context ${SERVER_CONTEXT} --namespace consul --output yaml | kubectl apply --namespace consul --context ${CLIENT_CONTEXT} --filename -
```

  ```

1. If ACLs were enabled in the server configuration values file, copy the token to the workload cluster.

  ```shell-session

>   $ kubectl get secret ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER}-consul-partitions-acl-token --context ${SERVER_CONTEXT} -n consul --output yaml | kubectl apply -n consul --context ${CLIENT_CONTEXT} --filename -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ kubectl get secret ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER}-consul-partitions-acl-token --context ${SERVER_CONTEXT} --namespace consul --output yaml | kubectl apply --namespace consul --context ${CLIENT_CONTEXT} --filename -
```

  ```
  
#### Install the workload client cluster 
  

> 1. Switch to the workload cllient clusters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Switch to the workload client clusters:
```

1. Install the workload client clusters:

  ```shell-session

>   $ helm install ${HELM_RELEASE_CLIENT} hashicorp/consul --version "0.43.0" --create-namespace -n consul --values client.yaml 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ helm install ${HELM_RELEASE_CLIENT} hashicorp/consul --version "0.43.0" --create-namespace --namespace consul --values client.yaml 
```

  ```

### Verifying the Deployment

You can log into the Consul UI to verify that the partitions appear as expected.

1. Set your context to the server cluster. 

  ```shell-session
  $ kubectl config use-context ${SERVER_CONTEXT} 
  ```
  
1. If ACLs are enabled, you will need the partitions ACL token, which can be read from the Kubernetes secret. The token is an encoded string that must be decoded in base64, e.g.:

  ```shell-session

>   $ kubectl get secret -n consul ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER}-consul-bootstrap-acl-token --template "{{ .data.token | base64decode }}"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ kubectl get secret --namespace consul ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER}-consul-bootstrap-acl-token --template "{{ .data.token | base64decode }}"
```
